README.md, before:

# igw

`igw` is a lightweight CLI wrapper for the Ignition Gateway API.

## Principles
- Default to the Go standard library; add third-party dependencies only when they provide clear, durable value.
- Generic API execution first (`call`).
- Stable exit codes for automation.

## Install

From source:

```bash
go install github.com/alex-mccollum/igw-cli/cmd/igw@latest
```

From GitHub Releases:

- Download the archive for your OS/architecture.
- Extract it and place `igw` (or `igw.exe`) on your `PATH`.

## Quickstart (60 Seconds)

```bash
# 1) Set your gateway URL
igw config set --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088

# 2) Set your API key
igw config set --api-key-stdin < token.txt

# 3) Verify connectivity and permissions
igw doctor

# 4) Run a read call
igw gateway info --json
```

## Commands
- `igw api list|show|search`: query local OpenAPI docs for endpoint discovery.
- `igw call`: generic HTTP executor for Ignition endpoints (or `--op` by operationId).
- `igw config set|show|profile`: local config + profile management.
- `igw doctor`: connectivity + auth checks (URL, TCP, read access, write access).
- `igw gateway info`: convenience read wrapper.
- `igw scan projects`: convenience write wrapper.
- `igw logs ...`: list/download logs and manage logger levels.
- `igw diagnostics bundle ...`: generate/status/download diagnostics bundles.
- `igw backup export|restore`: download or restore gateway backups.
- `igw tags export|import`: tag import/export helpers.
- `igw restart tasks|gateway`: restart task status and gateway restart trigger.

## Configuration Sources
Precedence is strict:
1. CLI flags
2. Environment variables
3. Config file

Environment variables:
- `IGNITION_GATEWAY_URL`
- `IGNITION_API_TOKEN`

Config file path:
- `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/igw/config.json` on Linux/macOS

## Examples
List endpoints from a local OpenAPI snapshot:

```bash
igw api list --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --path-contains gateway
```

Show one endpoint contract:

```bash
igw api show \
  --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json \
  --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
```

Search endpoint docs:

```bash
igw api search --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --query scan
```

Call gateway info:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --method GET \
  --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
```

Call with JSON output envelope:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --method POST \
  --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects \
  --json
```

Set config once:

```bash
igw config set --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088
igw config set --api-key-stdin < token.txt
# WSL helper:
igw config set --auto-gateway
```

Manage profiles:

```bash
igw config profile add dev --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key-stdin --use
igw config profile add prod --gateway-url http://10.10.0.5:8088 --api-key-stdin
igw config profile list
igw config profile use prod
```

Check config (token is masked):

```bash
igw config show
```

Run connectivity/auth checks:

```bash
igw doctor --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN"
```

Use convenience wrappers:

```bash
igw gateway info --profile dev --json
igw scan projects --profile dev --yes
```

Use admin wrappers:

```bash
igw logs list --profile dev --query limit=5 --json
igw diagnostics bundle status --profile dev --json
igw diagnostics bundle generate --profile dev --yes --json
igw backup export --profile dev --out gateway.gwbk
igw backup restore --profile dev --in gateway.gwbk --yes
igw tags export --profile dev --provider default --type json --out tags.json
igw tags import --profile dev --provider default --type json --collision-policy Overwrite --in tags.json --yes
igw restart tasks --profile dev --json
igw restart gateway --profile dev --yes --json
```

Check CLI version/build metadata:

```bash
igw version
```

Enable bash completion:

```bash
source <(igw completion bash)
```

Run end-to-end smoke checks:

```bash
IGW_PROFILE=dev ./scripts/smoke.sh
```

Call by operationId from local spec:

```bash
igw call \
  --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json \
  --op gatewayInfo \
  --json
```

Write safety + automation flags:

```bash
# dry-run helper (adds query dryRun=true)
igw call --method POST --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects --dry-run --yes --json

# retries (idempotent methods only)
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --retry 2 --retry-backoff 250ms --json

# write response body to file
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --out gateway-info.json
```

## Exit Codes
- `0`: success (`2xx`)
- `2`: usage/config errors
- `6`: auth failures (`401`, `403`)
- `7`: network/transport and non-auth HTTP failures

## Compatibility Policy

- Exit codes are stable within minor releases.
- JSON output field names are stable within minor releases.
- Breaking CLI or output contract changes are introduced only in a major release.

## Versioning Policy

- Releases follow semantic versioning: `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`.
- `PATCH`: bug fixes and non-breaking internal/doc changes.
- `MINOR`: new backward-compatible commands/flags/behavior.
- `MAJOR`: breaking behavior or output contract changes.

## Build

```bash
go build -trimpath -ldflags="-s -w" -o bin/igw ./cmd/igw
```

## Test

```bash
go test ./...
```

## Releasing

See `docs/releasing.md` for tag-based release steps and artifact naming.

Commit message:

docs: clarify quickstart placeholders and onboarding assumptions

README.md, after:

# igw

`igw` is a lightweight CLI wrapper for the Ignition Gateway API.

## Principles
- Default to the Go standard library; add third-party dependencies only when they provide clear, durable value.
- Generic API execution first (`call`).
- Stable exit codes for automation.

## Install

From source:

```bash
go install github.com/alex-mccollum/igw-cli/cmd/igw@latest
```

From GitHub Releases:

- Download the archive for your OS/architecture.
- Extract it and place `igw` (or `igw.exe`) on your `PATH`.

Verify install:

```bash
igw version
```

## Quickstart (60 Seconds)

The commands in this section are examples. Replace placeholder values for your environment.

Assumptions:
- You can reach your Ignition Gateway.
- You have an Ignition API token with the permissions you need.
- Commands below use `bash` syntax.

```bash
# Example values (replace these)
export IGW_GATEWAY_URL="http://127.0.0.1:8088"
export IGW_TOKEN_FILE="$HOME/.config/igw/token.txt"

# 1) Set your gateway URL
igw config set --gateway-url "$IGW_GATEWAY_URL"

# 2) Set your API key from a local file
igw config set --api-key-stdin < "$IGW_TOKEN_FILE"

# 3) Verify connectivity and permissions
igw doctor

# 4) Run a read call
igw gateway info --json
```

If you are in WSL and Ignition is running on Windows host:

```bash
igw config set --auto-gateway
```

## Commands
- `igw api list|show|search`: query local OpenAPI docs for endpoint discovery.
- `igw call`: generic HTTP executor for Ignition endpoints (or `--op` by operationId).
- `igw config set|show|profile`: local config + profile management.
- `igw doctor`: connectivity + auth checks (URL, TCP, read access, write access).
- `igw gateway info`: convenience read wrapper.
- `igw scan projects`: convenience write wrapper.
- `igw logs ...`: list/download logs and manage logger levels.
- `igw diagnostics bundle ...`: generate/status/download diagnostics bundles.
- `igw backup export|restore`: download or restore gateway backups.
- `igw tags export|import`: tag import/export helpers.
- `igw restart tasks|gateway`: restart task status and gateway restart trigger.

## Configuration Sources
Precedence is strict:
1. CLI flags
2. Environment variables
3. Config file

Environment variables:
- `IGNITION_GATEWAY_URL`
- `IGNITION_API_TOKEN`

Config file path:
- `${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:-~/.config}/igw/config.json` on Linux/macOS

## Examples
All commands below are examples. Replace placeholder values such as `http://127.0.0.1:8088`, `/path/to/openapi.json`, and token inputs.

List endpoints from a local OpenAPI snapshot:

```bash
igw api list --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --path-contains gateway
```

Show one endpoint contract:

```bash
igw api show \
  --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json \
  --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
```

Search endpoint docs:

```bash
igw api search --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --query scan
```

Call gateway info:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --method GET \
  --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
```

Call with JSON output envelope:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --method POST \
  --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects \
  --json
```

Set config once:

```bash
igw config set --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088
igw config set --api-key-stdin < token.txt
# WSL helper:
igw config set --auto-gateway
```

Manage profiles:

```bash
igw config profile add dev --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key-stdin --use
igw config profile add prod --gateway-url http://10.10.0.5:8088 --api-key-stdin
igw config profile list
igw config profile use prod
```

Check config (token is masked):

```bash
igw config show
```

Run connectivity/auth checks:

```bash
igw doctor --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN"
```

Use convenience wrappers:

```bash
igw gateway info --profile dev --json
igw scan projects --profile dev --yes
```

Use admin wrappers:

```bash
igw logs list --profile dev --query limit=5 --json
igw diagnostics bundle status --profile dev --json
igw diagnostics bundle generate --profile dev --yes --json
igw backup export --profile dev --out gateway.gwbk
igw backup restore --profile dev --in gateway.gwbk --yes
igw tags export --profile dev --provider default --type json --out tags.json
igw tags import --profile dev --provider default --type json --collision-policy Overwrite --in tags.json --yes
igw restart tasks --profile dev --json
igw restart gateway --profile dev --yes --json
```

Check CLI version/build metadata:

```bash
igw version
```

Enable bash completion:

```bash
source <(igw completion bash)
```

Run end-to-end smoke checks:

```bash
IGW_PROFILE=dev ./scripts/smoke.sh
```

Call by operationId from local spec:

```bash
igw call \
  --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json \
  --op gatewayInfo \
  --json
```

Write safety + automation flags:

```bash
# dry-run helper (adds query dryRun=true)
igw call --method POST --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects --dry-run --yes --json

# retries (idempotent methods only)
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --retry 2 --retry-backoff 250ms --json

# write response body to file
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --out gateway-info.json
```

## Exit Codes
- `0`: success (`2xx`)
- `2`: usage/config errors
- `6`: auth failures (`401`, `403`)
- `7`: network/transport and non-auth HTTP failures

## Compatibility Policy

- Exit codes are stable within minor releases.
- JSON output field names are stable within minor releases.
- Breaking CLI or output contract changes are introduced only in a major release.

## Versioning Policy

- Releases follow semantic versioning: `vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`.
- `PATCH`: bug fixes and non-breaking internal/doc changes.
- `MINOR`: new backward-compatible commands/flags/behavior.
- `MAJOR`: breaking behavior or output contract changes.

## Build

```bash
go build -trimpath -ldflags="-s -w" -o bin/igw ./cmd/igw
```

## Test

```bash
go test ./...
```

## Releasing

See `docs/releasing.md` for tag-based release steps and artifact naming.
