docs/commands.md, before:

# Commands

Build:

```bash
go build ./cmd/igw
```

Test:

```bash
go test ./...
```

Version:

```bash
igw version
```

API docs discovery:

```bash
igw api list --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --path-contains gateway
igw api show --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
igw api search --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --query scan
```

Generic call:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --method GET \
  --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
```

Call by operationId:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json \
  --op gatewayInfo
```

Mutation safety + automation:

```bash
igw call --method POST --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects --yes
igw call --method POST --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects --dry-run --yes --json
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --retry 2 --retry-backoff 250ms
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --out gateway-info.json
```

Config:

```bash
igw config set --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088
igw config set --auto-gateway
igw config set --api-key-stdin < token.txt
igw config show
```

Profiles:

```bash
igw config profile add dev --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key-stdin --use
igw config profile add stage --gateway-url http://10.0.1.5:8088 --api-key-stdin
igw config profile list
igw config profile use stage
```

Doctor:

```bash
igw doctor --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN"
```

Convenience wrappers:

```bash
igw gateway info --profile dev --json
igw scan projects --profile dev --yes
```

Admin wrappers:

```bash
# Logs
igw logs list --profile dev --query limit=5 --json
igw logs download --profile dev --out gateway-logs.zip
igw logs loggers --profile dev --json
igw logs logger set --profile dev --name com.inductiveautomation --level DEBUG --yes --json
igw logs level-reset --profile dev --yes --json

# Diagnostics bundle
igw diagnostics bundle generate --profile dev --yes --json
igw diagnostics bundle status --profile dev --json
igw diagnostics bundle download --profile dev --out diagnostics.zip

# Backups
igw backup export --profile dev --out gateway.gwbk
igw backup restore --profile dev --in gateway.gwbk --yes --json

# Tags
igw tags export --profile dev --provider default --type json --path MyFolder --out tags.json
igw tags import --profile dev --provider default --type json --collision-policy Overwrite --in tags.json --yes --json

# Restart
igw restart tasks --profile dev --json
igw restart gateway --profile dev --yes --json
```

Shell completion:

```bash
source <(igw completion bash)
```

Smoke test script:

```bash
IGW_PROFILE=dev ./scripts/smoke.sh
```

Commit message:

docs: make commands.md canonical and trim README command duplication

docs/commands.md, after:

# Commands

This file is the canonical command example reference.

Build:

```bash
go build ./cmd/igw
```

Test:

```bash
go test ./...
```

Version:

```bash
igw version
```

API docs discovery:

```bash
igw api list --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --path-contains gateway
igw api show --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
igw api search --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json --query scan
```

Generic call:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --method GET \
  --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info
```

Call by operationId:

```bash
igw call \
  --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 \
  --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN" \
  --spec-file /path/to/openapi.json \
  --op gatewayInfo
```

Mutation safety + automation:

```bash
igw call --method POST --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects --yes
igw call --method POST --path /data/api/v1/scan/projects --dry-run --yes --json
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --retry 2 --retry-backoff 250ms
igw call --method GET --path /data/api/v1/gateway-info --out gateway-info.json
```

Config:

```bash
igw config set --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088
igw config set --auto-gateway
igw config set --api-key-stdin < token.txt
igw config show
```

Profiles:

```bash
igw config profile add dev --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key-stdin --use
igw config profile add stage --gateway-url http://10.0.1.5:8088 --api-key-stdin
igw config profile list
igw config profile use stage
```

Doctor:

```bash
igw doctor --gateway-url http://127.0.0.1:8088 --api-key "$IGNITION_API_TOKEN"
```

Convenience wrappers:

```bash
igw gateway info --profile dev --json
igw scan projects --profile dev --yes
```

Admin wrappers:

```bash
# Logs
igw logs list --profile dev --query limit=5 --json
igw logs download --profile dev --out gateway-logs.zip
igw logs loggers --profile dev --json
igw logs logger set --profile dev --name com.inductiveautomation --level DEBUG --yes --json
igw logs level-reset --profile dev --yes --json

# Diagnostics bundle
igw diagnostics bundle generate --profile dev --yes --json
igw diagnostics bundle status --profile dev --json
igw diagnostics bundle download --profile dev --out diagnostics.zip

# Backups
igw backup export --profile dev --out gateway.gwbk
igw backup restore --profile dev --in gateway.gwbk --yes --json

# Tags
igw tags export --profile dev --provider default --type json --path MyFolder --out tags.json
igw tags import --profile dev --provider default --type json --collision-policy Overwrite --in tags.json --yes --json

# Restart
igw restart tasks --profile dev --json
igw restart gateway --profile dev --yes --json
```

Shell completion:

```bash
source <(igw completion bash)
```

Smoke test script:

```bash
IGW_PROFILE=dev ./scripts/smoke.sh
```
